do mtvecc rep check with MODE field zeroed (#542)
riscv/riscv-cheri: src/riscv-integration.adoc

its address incremented by four times the interrupt cause number.

Capabilities written to <<mtvecc>> also include writing the MODE field in

> **mtvecc.address[1:0]**, which is a WARL field, meaning that the capability address can

Reviewer: In theory it would be possible to do this legalization on read and just store the "illegal value"?

Author: yes - so I fixed the text

> change on writing. If the MODE field is non-zero after any WARL conversion,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change on writing. If the MODE field is non-zero after legalization,
```

Author: ```suggestion
change on writing. If the MODE field is non-zero after any legalization,
```

then the address used for the exception vector (which has **mtvecc.address[1:0]=2'b00**)

> will not match the value read by software from the CSR.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this - won't we always read the legalized value? Or do you mean won't match the value "written to the CSR"?

Reviewer: New wording fixes this issue thanks.

In this situation, the same capability can have more than one address.

> When updating the CSR _all possible_ values of the address must be in the

Reviewer: Does this _all possible_ refer to the max address with vectored mode? Or just to mode=0/1?

<<section_cap_representable_check>>, and the tag cleared if _any_ are not.

> The capability is always written using <<SCADDR>> semantics to update the address field,

Reviewer: I'm not sure how useful it is to support this but couldn't we install a sentry for non-vectored mode? On exception it is unsealed and in Direct mode there is no address modification so that would work.

For vectored, I agree we have to check that cap address with the low bit cleared (since it is set to 1 for vectored) is representable.

Author: it's possible, but that would be a spec change......

Reviewer: For MODE=DIRECT the address matches the raw value of the capability so there is only one address that can be observed? We should call out that sentries are invalidated even in this case since there is no unsealing on MRET.

Reviewer: https://github.com/riscv/riscv-cheri/issues/561

its address incremented by four times the interrupt cause number.

Capabilities written to <<mtvecc>> also include writing the MODE field in
**mtvecc.address[1:0]**, which is a WARL field, meaning that the capability address can
be legalized. If the MODE field is non-zero after any legalization,
then the address used for the exception vector (which has **mtvecc.address[1:0]=2'b00**)
will not match the value read by software from the CSR.

> In this situation, the same capability can effectively have more than one address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this sentence is confusing and is best removed. We're basically just using this capability and with the address updated.

When updating the CSR _all possible_ values of the address visible either by CSR read,
or which are used as the <<pcc>> on exception launch, must be in the
<<section_cap_representable_check>>, and the tag cleared if _any_ are not.

The capability is always written using <<SCADDR>> semantics to update the address field,
even when writing the full capability, and so sealed capabilities will always have
their tags cleared.

Additionally, when MODE=Vectored the capability has its tag bit cleared if the

> capability address~3 + 4xHICAUSE is not within the <<section_cap_representable_check>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`(capability address & ~3) + 4 * HICAUSE` is not within the <<section_cap_representable_check>>.
```

HICAUSE is the largest interrupt cause value that the implementation can write
to <<mcause>> or <<scause>>/<<vscause>> when an interrupt is taken.

> NOTE: When MODE=Vectored, it is only required that the capability address + 4xHICAUSE is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When MODE=Vectored, it is only required that the capability address + `4 *  HICAUSE` is
```

within the <<section_cap_representable_check>> instead of the capability's bounds.
This ensures
that software is not forced to allocate a capability granting access to more
memory for the trap-vector than necessary to handle the trap causes that
actually occur in the system.

NOTE: When MODE=Vectored, if either the capability address _or_ the capability

> address + 4xHICAUSE are invalid then the <<section_invalid_addr_conv>> rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`address + 4 * HICAUSE` are invalid then the <<section_invalid_addr_conv>> rules
```
Maybe like this?

Capabilities written to <<mtvecc>> also include writing the MODE field in
**mtvecc.address[1:0]**. As a result, a representability and sealing check is

> performed on the capability with the MODE field zeroed in

Reviewer: Hmm I'm not sure about this one - ISAv9 Qemu does the check with the legalized mode. Then again I am not convinced this actually matters since you can use mode==1 with sentries. 

I also feel that we should be a bit more explicit here about what happens if you install a sentry in mtvecc.

Author: The point here is that it's possible (in a very bizarre way) to have  a cap which is representable when the LSB of the address is set, and not representable when the LSB is clear, so jumping to MTVECC in this case means jumping to a bad capability. That's the bug I'm trying to fix here, and it implies that Qemu on CHERI v9 has this an an undetected bug.

For sentries in mtvecc - I agree the spec isn't clear - clarifying that should be another PR.

Author: ok - updated - including clarifying sentry behaviour

Author: V9 wouldn't have this problem - it's because we hade the A<R check use many more bits to in the extreme case even address bit [0] can actually affect the representability result, which was probably an oversight

Reviewer: https://github.com/riscv/riscv-cheri/issues/561 opened to track the sentry issue. Otherwise this has been resolved.
